#Project 2 - Bootstrap
##Description
You will create a basic portfolio site using Bootstrap. Apply your knowledge of HTML, CSS, and the Bootstrap framework to create an attractive and functional portfolio. Your site will feature four main sections:

* `Jumbotron` - Header area made with bootstrap's `jumbotron` class.
* `About` - A picture of you with a brief description of your experience and the services you provide.
* `Works` - A gallery with images of work you have created.
* `Contact` - A contact section with a form


## Components
### Jumbotron
Here, you will need to make a `<div>` with the class "jumbotron"
Inside that div, make a div with the classes "container" and "text-center"
    Inside that container, put an `<h1>` with your site name, and a
    `<p>` with one sentence about your site
    
See - [Bootstrap components - jumbotron](https://getbootstrap.com/components/#jumbotron)

### About
You will make a `<div>` with class "page-header" and id "section-about" 
Inside that div, make an `<h2>` that says "About Me"

Below that, make a row with two columns. 
The first column will be a div with class '`col-lg-4`'.  
Inside this column, use the img tag to insert a picture.
Choose an image of appropriate dimensions (not too big/small/wide) and make sure that that img has the classes "img-responsive" and "img-rounded". A good image size would be about 400x400 pixels. 

The second column will be a div with class '`col-lg-8`'.  
Inside this column, put a lorem ipsum or a description of yourself.
You may reuse the text from the first part of the project.
 
To make your row and columns, the syntax might look something like this:

```html
<div class="row">
	<div class="col-lg-4">
		...
	</div>
	<div class="col-lg-8">
		...
	</div>	
</div>
```


## Submission
You will submit your project in the form of a `.zip` file with this format:
`j360-lastname-firstname.zip` 

This time **I will deduct points** if your file is not named correctly!

Submit your assignment on Canvas in the form of a `.zip` file.


###**<span style="color:red">Due Friday 10/14</span> at 11:59pm**

