---
layout: default
title: g360 - Project Three
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'sp20'
course: 'g360'
---
# Project Three
## Description
By now, you should have an idea of what you want to do for your final project. You can expand on an existing project, develop a new one, or collaborate with others.

### OPTION A: Unity
 You will create a Unity project. This is the primary intended project for Spring 2020.

### OPTION B: Figma or Invision Studio
You can do another Figma project. This should be more challenging than Project Two.

There's also [Invision Studio](https://www.invisionapp.com/studio). It's quite similar to Figma and this is a great opportunity to pick up a new skillset.

### OPTION C: Something else
You can do another project that:

1. Is challenging
2. Applies what you've used in class
3. Serves as a useful portfolio piece

Some ideas might be:
1. UI Kit
2. Game in a non-Unity engine
3. A website

## Expectations
This project should:

 * Apply principles you've learned in class
 * Prove challenging to you
 * Force you into new/uncomfortable territory as a designer
 * Be extensible in nature--- you can easily build off of it, share with others, or adapt for future use.
 * Be prepared as a portfolio piece

__Project must contain UI that:__
 * functions properly and serves a purpose in the game
 * is sensible and intuitive; if something looks like a button it should behave like a button
 * is stylized and polished
 * is significant and substantial
 * follows established conventions
 * can be understood by others viewing your project _(name variables/functions/classes sensibly)_

Examples of substantial, functional UI:
 * a minimap
 * tabs/layers in a menu
 * a menu system to choose between levels/scenes
 * a working inventory system
 * dynamic/scriptable objects
 * World Space UI or other diegetic UI
 * particle effects or other aesthetically-pleasing UI effects
 * dialogue boxes
 * contextual UI _(e.g., 'press x inspect' when close to an item)_

 Adding score, win text, or simple unstylized UI will not suffice. __Our focus is on UI__, so other game elements _(e.g., player, world, terrain, textures, lighting)_ don't need to be polished.

My advice is to __focus on one or two main UI components__ and make them beautiful and functional, instead of having tons of shoddy, dysfunctional UI.

__Do not__ submit projects with incomplete work; e.g. "Logo Placeholder" is not acceptable; put a logo there.

If you are using asset store UI, you must:
 * get instructor's permission
 * implement it in a novel way
 * do something that distinguishes it substantially from the sample project. Do not just download UI and copy/paste them into a game without changing anything.

## Progress Check
You will have an in-class progress check. I will announce the date.

You should be able to show visible progress, and some trajectory towards a complete project. You should present challenges and concerns, and also present potential solutions: _(e.g., I'm having trouble making a UI mask for my mini-map, so I'm going to watch [this](https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/topics/user-interface-ui/ui-mask) tutorial)_

## Grading
This project is worth `30 points`.

__Project Vision and Management__ `8 pts`
 * Project is challenging to student based on the level they're at
 * Project is achievable within the allotted timeframe
 * Project is ready to present as a portfolio piece
 * Project has some kind of new or meaningful features, not just a re-hash of existing projects

Management of Scope and Progress
 * Student worked steadily on project over the allotted timeframe
 * Project goals were chosen deliberately
 * Project scope was consciously maintained and re-evaluated
 * Adjustments were made over the course of the project as necessary
 * Student was present for progress check on 4/17

__Function of UI(UX) + scripting__ `10 pts`
 * UI functions as intended
 * UI serves meaningful purpose in the game
 * Others are able to figure out what's going on in your script(s)
 * Variables/functions/classes should be meaningfully named
 * For some students, "UI" might refer to other parts of the game such as particle effects, level markers, or anything else that contributes to game experience

__Presentation of UI(UX)__ `10 pts`
 * Other game elements _(e.g. models/environment)_ don't need to be polished, but the UI should be clean, polished, and visually consistent
 * UI is appropriately sized and positioned
 * Purpose of UI is self-explanatory
 * UI resembles other game UI _(follows established conventions)_
 * For some students, "UI" might refer to other parts of the game such as particle effects, level markers, or anything else that contributes to game experience

__Submission details__ `2 pts`
 * Repo is public, clones easily
 * It is clear which scene I should open
 * The purpose of each file/folder in your project is clear
 * There are no unnecessary files/folders and no disorderly files/folders. __PLEASE DO NOT MAKE ME DOWNLOAD SEVERAL GIGS OF UNUSED ASSETS__.
 * __TEST YOUR REPO BY PULLING IT FROM ANOTHER DEVICE__.
 * I recommend using `.gitignore` so that you don't include `Library` or `Temp` folders

## Submission
__Unity projects:__
You will submit your BitBucket link through Canvas.

1. From SourceTree, create a new remote repository and point it to your local project folder. __Make sure that your repository is public__.
2. Make a `.gitignore` file in your Unity project folder. [This is a popular one](https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Unity.gitignore) that many people use.
3. Commit all your local files through Sourcetree
4. Push your staged commits to the server from Sourcetree
5. Test your submission by attempting to clone it from another machine. __If you cannot successfully clone the project and load it into Unity from another machine, then I cannot either.__

__Other projects:__ coordinate with me to make sure you understand what you will be submitting.

#### **Due Friday May 8th at 11:59pm**
#### Remember that because this is the final project, `late submissions are not accepted` If you think you won't be able to submit for any reason, let me know as far in advance as you possibly can.