#j362 - Project 2
---------
## Description
You will create a [triptych](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triptych) that depicts the past, present, and future of your life. You will use three 1000x1000 pixel artboards in Illustrator - one each for `past, present, and future`.

Each panel must have at least `three visual elements`. A visual element could be a photo, text, color scheme.

You can use type, imagery, drawing, color, diagrams, whatever you feel captures your persona at that time. Use the Ws “Who, What, When, Where, Why, How” to generate ideas but instead of representing your entire life, focus on key dramatic moments in each time period where things changed forever: this can be an accident, a discovery, a decision, or a deed. 

Feel free to utilize typography, imagery, drawing, color, diagrams, or anything that you feel captures your persona at that time period. Use the W's - `Who, what, when, where, why, how` to generate ideas. Instead of focusing on your life as a whole, focus on key dramatic moments in each time period where something changed forever - for many people, this could be an accident, a discovery, a decision, or an event.

Some recommendations:

* `Places and scenery` - This could be specific (e.g., Chicago), or more general scenery (e.g., a corn field somewhere)
* `Plants and animals` - Perhaps there is a tree on campus you're fond of, a pet that you love, etc.
* `Experiences and events` - Maybe you plan to travel to Bangladesh in the future and want to depict that in your future panel. Perhaps you broke a bone in 2nd grade and needed a cast. Any significant event or memory will serve as good material for your narrative.
* `Listen to music` or `watch movies` from the past while you generate ideas; try to reconstruct how you felt at the time.
* `Create` a Pinterest board for this project - start pinning anything that resonates with you and can serve as potential inspiration for your project.

####Questions to ask yourself
`PAST`

* What is your fondest memory? Who was there, what happened, and why is it significant?
* What is the single most impactful thing that happened to you growing up?
* Did you have a favorite toy/game/movie/show growing up? Maybe you spent a lot of time building with Legos or playing Yahtzee with family.

`PRESENT`

* What is your routine like? Think of school, work, and the habits in your life in general.
* What are your favorite places/venues?
* What are the most exciting parts of your life now?
* What are the hardships in your life now?

`FUTURE`

* What do you want to do?
* What places do you want to go?
* What challenges do you envision in the future? 
* What goals and aspirations do you have? Perhaps you want to go skydiving or learn kickboxing.

### Examples
In order to provide a better sense of direction, I've included some examples:

* Example One - [Interactive](triptych/index.html)
* Example Two - [Panel 1](tg/1.jpg) | [Panel 2](tg/2.jpg) | [Panel 3](tg/3.jpg) | [All Panels](tg/full.png)

## Schedule
Maintaining a steady work pace is integral to success. While you are free to tackle this project however you like, I recommend setting and pursuing goals to manage the development of your project.

* Have your idea/concept ready by 10/3 (Monday)
* Have Panel 1 finished by 10/5
* Have Panel 2 finished by 10/10
* Finish Panel 3 and refine your project with the remaining time

Project 2 is due `Friday October 14th` by 11:59pm.

## Grading
10% of your grade will come from ideation and conceptualization - in other words, how well you brainstormed and planned your idea. For a project that aims to tell a visual story, spending ample time to envision and conceptualize your project beforehand will make the process much easier.

The rest of the grade is comprised of 30 points per panel.

|Component|Points |
| ---     |-----: | 
| Ideation and Concept | 10 |
| Panel 1 | 30    | 
| Panel 2 | 30    | 
| Panel 3 | 30    |
|**Total**|**100**|

When grading each panel, I am looking at:

* `Composition` - How well did you use the space on your artboard? Is it cluttered, sparse, or unbalanced? Using a grid can be helpful in defining your space before you begin working.
* `Narrative and cohesion` - Does the art succeed in telling a story? While open to interpretation, your work should strive to convey some kind of story or narrative. Viewers should be able to sense some progression of narrative from past to future.
* `Technique` - How well have you applied your knowledge of Illustrator? It should be evident that you are becoming comfortable with Illustrator and have been refining your technical skills.
* `Use of Elements` - You will choose visual elements to place on your artboards. The choice and execution of these elements should be sensible. For example, you might have fond memories of a dog from your childhood. Using an image or vector drawing of a dog would make sense. Your elements should go together and have similar visual style.

Submit your project in the form of a `.ai` file via Canvas.