# j362 Project 3 - Visualization Analysis
## Description
Project 3 is very similar to the in-class group exercise we did; you will read and analyze a visualization article. The only difference is that you will do it individually instead of in a group this time.

The goal of this exercise is to incite meaningful thinking about the role that visualization and graphics can play in journalism. You will look at a given article and see it through different "lenses" - as a reader; as an aspiring journalist; as a designer. Remember that  **there are no wrong answers.** Good data viz stories are designed to make stories accessible to **as many people possible**, and you are all readers with valid opinions, perspectives, and viewpoints.

## Process
1. Begin by choosing an article (I provide three of them) - pick one that you would like to read and analyze. If you would like to analyze a different article, that's fine - just include the link somewhere in your submission
2. Download the `starter file` I give you. It is a Word document
3. Answer the provided questions, saving them in the starter file
4. Rename your document in this format - `j362_lastname-firstname.docx`
5. Upload your file to Canvas. You can either submit as a `.docx` (Word document) or `.pdf`

### Individual - Reading <small>(10-15 min)</small>
First, each group member will read the story as individuals. Because people process information differently, it is important that each member takes time to read and analyze the story individually; this will provide more valuable contributions to the group's effort.

### Group - Analysis and Discussion <small>(20 min)</small>
Groups will discuss topics (provided below), encouraged to find areas where individuals agree and disagree.

#### Questions and Topics
1. Summarize this story in one to two sentences.
2. Attempt to answer the five W's:
	* Who?
	* What?
	* Where?
	* When?
	* Why?
3. What kind of visualizations did this story use? For example - bar charts, bubble charts, scatter plots, heatmaps, etc.  
4. Did you find that the types of visualizations used (e.g., maps/line charts) were appropriate for this story?  
5. How did the visualizations contribute to the story? What information was made clearer by use of graphics?  
6. What could have been done better? Were there any charts/visualizations that did not make sense?
7. Would you change anything in the way that information is presented in this story? If so, what would you change?
8. Try to envision this story being published about 30 years ago. How much different would it be? Could traditional print journalism accomplish what this story does with its graphics?

### Class - Sharing <small>(5min per group)</small>
After group discussions, each group will share briefly about their experience with the story, presenting their findings and opinions to the class as a whole. The instructor and other class members will participate in the discussion, contributing ideas and observations.