---
layout: default
title: J363 - Project Three
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa19'
course: 'j363'
---
# Project Three --- <small>Webflow site `15 points`</small>
## Description
You will build a responsive website in Webflow.

This project is designed to give you a lot of agency and creative control. I am not picky about what you want to do, but here are some ideas:

 * Landing page for a fictional agency
 * Portfolio page for your work
 * Another online shop
 * Multimedia story/article

## Grading
This project is worth `15 points`.

Message and Meaning `3 pts`
 * Site has a sense of meaning, purpose, and intention
 * Site feels like it was thought out, planned, and executed purposefully
 * Site communicates a message about you or your product/brand/idea/agency

Layout and Structure `5 pts`
 * Site uses space, size, and proportion thoughtfully
 * Site layout is appropriate for its content
 * Elements on the site are structured sensibly _(e.g., use containers, columns, sections, etc. where appropriate)_

Look and Feel `5 pts`
 * Site has a distinct look and feel (visual style)
 * Color scheme is deliberate, consistent, and harmonious
 * Typography conveys voice, character, and tone of the site _(e.g. if this site is serious don't use Comic Sans)_
 * Images are high-quality and appropriate to the site's content. You should also make sure your images are licensed for re-use.

Technical `2 pts`
 * Site styles should make use of CSS classes and cascade.
 * Site should be responsive, and look good on different devices.
 * Site must use __at least one interaction or animation effect__-- e.g., hover, scrolling, animation
 * Others should be able to view your site and figure out how it's put together

## Approach

1. Come up with an idea. Sketch it out on paper
2. Get [inspiration](../inspiration.html). You may find it helpful to make a mood board in Pinterest or collect links that are helpful to inform your design.
3. Work on your site.
4. Iterate and re-work as necessary.


### Resources
 * [Inspiration](../inspiration.html) section
 * [Webflow University](https://university.webflow.com/) to figure out how to do stuff _(e.g. make a hero image, create interactions)_.
 * [Webflow Showcase](https://webflow.com/discover/popular)--- you can click 'Preview in Webflow' to see the site
 * [Webflow YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCELSb-IYi_d5rYFOxWeOz5g/playlists) has some excellent playlists. There is an entire playlist about making a portfolio site, for instance
 * [digital bake](https://www.thedigitalbake.com/)--- free Webflow components. You may use these as long as you cite their use.



## Where to build your project
You will have two places you can build your site: (1) Nic A's team or (2) your personal profile. If you want your project to be private, you should build it on your personal profile.

You can build it in the team dashboard and it will be visible to other students.

__You are welcome to view other peoples' projects, but please be respectful__. Do not copy from their site blatantly, and do not edit their work without permission.

__Students are permitted to work in teams with instructor's permission__.

## Submission - Canvas
Submit your published WebFlow URL to : `CANVAS > ASSIGNMENTS > PROJECT 3`

#### **Due `Sunday April 7th at 11:59pm`**