---
layout: default
title: J363 - Project Three
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa20'
course: 'j363'
---
# Project Three --- <small>Webflow site `20 points`</small>
## Description
You will build a responsive website in Webflow.

This project is designed to give you a lot of agency and creative control. I am not picky about what you want to do, but here are some ideas:
 * Landing page for a fictional agency
 * Portfolio page for your work
 * Another online shop
 * Multimedia story/article

## Requirements
### Intention and Brand Identity `10 pts.`
 * Site has a clear mission and set of core values
 * Site considers its positioning and target audience
 * Site has a consistent brand identity throughout

### Visual Identity `7 pts.`
__Don't make my eyes bleed.__ This is an opportunity for you to generate an amazing portfolio piece.
 * Site is aesthetically pleasing
 * Site has consistent and cohesive visual style
 * Sizing of elements is intentional--- Make sure your text, nav links, and other elements are appropriately sized. You should vary the size of your heading elements to create a clear hierarchy.
 * Color is used effectively--- Your text should be readable. Your color scheme should be consistent across the page. Avoid HUGE areas of saturated color unless you are doing it very intentionally.

#### Hero Image
Your site will have a _hero image_. This means a large, visually engaging photograph at the top of your site. You should put the _(fictitious)_ name of the site across the top.

 * Remember you can use the built-in Hero components from Webflow (Add > Layouts)
 * [This tutorial](https://university.webflow.com/lesson/portfolio-website-part-2) is helpful too.


#### Composition (Structure/Layout)
 * Content is thoughtfully arranged
 * Items are aligned to a grid _(you can get creative; use any kind of grid you like)_
 * Site has a clear 'page flow' and focal points
 * Site demonstrates good use of composition. _(Revisit the Dynamic Composition slides)_
 * Intentional use of space --- Elements should not be too tight/cramped next to each other, but there should not be huge gaps between elements either. Use `margin` and `padding` as needed. I recommend making a container to put your site in. This will keep elements from being too far apart on wide displays.
 * You must have a navigation bar with a few links on it. These links don't need to be functional. You can use the built-in Webflow navbar component.

### Technical `3 pts.`
 * Site styles/classes should be done efficiently. E.g., if you have 10 headings with the same style, make a class. If you have a color that you use in 20 different places, define it as a swatch.
 * Site should be responsive, and look good on different devices.
 * Site must use __at least one interaction or animation effect__-- e.g., hover, scrolling, animation
 * Others should be able to view your site and figure out how it's put together

### Resources
 * [Inspiration](../inspiration.html) section
 * [Webflow University](https://university.webflow.com/) to figure out how to do stuff _(e.g. make a hero image, create interactions)_.
 * [Webflow Showcase](https://webflow.com/discover/popular)--- you can click 'Preview in Webflow' to see the site
 * [Webflow YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCELSb-IYi_d5rYFOxWeOz5g/playlists) has some excellent playlists. There is an entire playlist about making a portfolio site, for instance
 * [digital bake](https://www.thedigitalbake.com/)--- free Webflow components. You may use these as long as you cite their use.

#### Doing a portfolio site?
[This video series](https://university.webflow.com/courses/building-a-portfolio-website) will be helpful.

## Where to build your project
You will have two places you can build your site: (1) Nic's team or (2) your personal profile. If you want your project to be private, you should build it on your personal profile.

You can build it in the team dashboard and it will be visible to other students.

__You are welcome to view other peoples' projects, but please be respectful__. Do not copy from their site blatantly, and do not edit their work without permission.

__Students are permitted to work in teams with instructor's permission__. Students working in teams will be met with a higher expectation of quality and rigor in their project.

## Submission - Canvas
Watch [this tutorial](https://www.loom.com/share/8597f0cf0f1c4602bcc195096e8429c0) if you're not sure how to publish your Webflow site

Submit your published WebFlow URL to : `CANVAS > ASSIGNMENTS > PROJECT 3`

#### **Due `Friday April 17th at 11:59pm`**