# j362 Project 3 - Visualization Analysis
## Description
Project 3 is very similar to the in-class group exercise we did; you will read and analyze a visualization article. The only difference is that you will do it individually instead of in a group this time.

The goal of this exercise is to incite meaningful thinking about the role that visualization and graphics can play in journalism. You will look at a given article and see it through different "lenses" - as a reader; as an aspiring journalist; as a designer. Remember that  **there are no wrong answers.** Good data viz stories are designed to make stories accessible to _as many people possible_, and you are all readers with valid opinions, perspectives, and viewpoints.

Your assignment should not exceed `500 words` in length.

## Process
1. Begin by choosing an article (see section `Articles` below) - pick one that you would like to read and analyze. If you would like to analyze a different article, that's fine - just include the link somewhere in your submission
2. Download the `Starter file` I give you. It is a Word document
3. Answer the provided questions, saving them in the starter file
4. Rename your document in this format - `j362_lastname-firstname.docx`
5. Upload your file to Canvas. You can either submit as a `.docx` (Word document) or `.pdf`

## Articles
Pick one of these articles or select your own:

1. Washington Post - [Presidential Candidates' Wikipedia Pages](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/politics/2016-election/presidential-wikipedias/)
2. Washington Post - [Raising Barriers](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/world/border-barriers/global-illegal-immigration-prevention/)
3. New York Times - [1.5 Million Black Men are Missing](http://nyti.ms/1P5Gpa7)
4. New York Times - [How the Supreme Court’s Decision Will Affect Access to Abortion](http://nyti.ms/1RAxrDn)

## Starter File
Click to download - [J362_project3-starter.docx](j362_project3-starter.docx)

## Questions and Topics

1. Summarize this story in one to two sentences.
2. Attempt to answer the five W's:
	* Who?
	* What?
	* Where?
	* When?
	* Why?
3. What kind of visualizations did this story use? For example - bar charts, bubble charts, scatter plots, heatmaps, etc.  
4. Did you find that the types of visualizations used (e.g., maps/line charts) were appropriate for this story?  
5. How did the visualizations contribute to the story? What information was made clearer by use of graphics?  
6. What could have been done better? Were there any charts/visualizations that did not make sense?
7. Would you change anything in the way that information is presented in this story? If so, what would you change?
8. Try to envision this story being published about 30 years ago. How much different would it be? Could traditional print journalism accomplish what this story does with its graphics?

## Naming Your Document
To rename a file, right-click it and choose `rename`. You must name your submission file correctly to receive full credit.

Use this format: `j362_lastname-firstname.docx`

## Submission
Upload your file under `Project 3` on Canvas. You can submit as a Word document or PDF. Remember to ensure that it is named correctly.

<div class="big"><b>Due Friday 11/11 by 11:59pm</b></div>
<div style="height:25px"></div>