---
layout: default
title: G290 - Project One
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'sp19'
course: 'g290'
---
# Project One - <small>UI Re-design</small> `10 pts.`
## Description
Choose a game with poor UI and create a re-designed, high-fidelity mockup. You are suggested to use Illustrator or Photoshop.

### Examples
<div class="card-block">
  <p class="card-text">I've compiled some examples for this project:</p>
  <a href="https://imgur.com/a/syYC4zt" class="btn btn-primary" target="_blank">View Examples</a>
</div>

### Choosing a game
 * The chosen game should be fairly UI-heavy _(e.g., an MMORPG is probably a better choice than an endless runner)_
 * Choose a game in which the UI presents substantial usability problems _(UI should be dysfunctional, not just ugly)_
 * Your re-design should be markedly different from the original. This is a complete re-design, not just polishing or resizing buttons.
 * Find a high-resolution screenshot with no UI and re-design on top of it.

Some games with bad UI that are easy to redesign:
 * Call of Duty
 * Dark Souls
 * Playstation All Stars
 * Skyrim
 * The Witcher
 * World of Warcraft

### Alternative assignment: UI Kit
You can also develop a UI Kit for a game/app. Students in Workshop/Production classes may want to do this in order to build assets for their games. If you want to take this approach, __please ask me first__.

Common elements you might include:
 * Menu
 * Settings
 * Volume
 * Brightness
 * Friends List
 * Selected/Hovered/Unselected modes
 * OK or Accept
 * Back
 * Borders--- Corners, straight pieces
 * Store
 * Social Media (Facebook , Twitter, Etc.)
 * Messages
 * Exit
 * Loading Icon
 * Cursor
 * Search Bar

## Expectations
I do my best to cover relevant design principles, but you are expected to some research of your own. You may find it useful to visit the `inspiration` tab at the top of this page. I would also recommend reviewing the [slides from the Younas talk](../mats/art-direction-for-aaa-ui.pdf).

Below is a list of criteria that you should strive to fulfill. Your grade is determined based on how well you adhere to these principles.

### Composition, Layout, and Proportion
 * Elements are appropriately sized and positioned
 * UI is neither too sparse nor too crowded; mindful use of whitespace (negative space)
 * Effective design principles are used _(e.g., [Rule of Thirds](https://tympanus.net/codrops/2012/05/23/understanding-the-rule-of-thirds-in-web-design/), [Golden Ratio](https://blog.prototypr.io/golden-ratio-in-ui-design-8d11e66582c3))_
 * Position of UI elements is thoughtful _(e.g., anchoring to side/corner/center of screen. In Overwatch, Tracer's teleport charges are anchored to the reticle as their state is always relevant)_.

### Typography
 * Fonts are appropriate to the game's visual style _(e.g. do not use Comic Sans if you are re-designing Dark Souls)_
 * Fonts are readable. _(Remember the six foot rule; you should be able to read it six feet away from your screen)_
 * Decorative fonts are used sparingly or not at all
 * Letter spacing and [kerning](https://www.canva.com/learn/kerning/) are considered
 * Clear font hierarchy exists
   * The user should know which information is critical and which is less important
   * Appropriate contrast is observed _(e.g., pairing 16pt Garamond with 18pt Georgia is not an effective contrast)_

### Color
 * Color choices are sensible and work with the game's visual theme
 * Color palette is thoughtful and harmonious
 * Use of color is consistent; choose a specific color and maintain it

### Shapes and Iconography
 * Icons should fit the visual style of the game.
 * Icons should observe existing conventions (e.g., a bag icon for 'inventory' or a sword icon for 'attack')
 * Icon imagery should be representational of its function
 * You can use existing icons with appropriate licensing __ONLY with instructor's permission__.

### Visual Treatment
 * Effects and visual treatment should be consistent
 * Choose a specification mindfully and observe it throughout your work. _(e.g., all panels have 1px black border with #EEEEEE fill color and 15px border radius)
 * You may find Illustrator's 'graphic styles' panel useful.
 * Remember that you can use the Eyedropper tool to transfer defined appearances to new objects.

## Submission and Deliverables
You will submit a single `.zip` file that contains:

1. ~100 word description of UI problems in your chosen game (`.docx`, `.pdf` or `.txt`). These can be bullet points, paragraph structure, slideshow, or an annotated image.
2. Source screenshot (high-resolution `.jpg` or `.png`) that you're building the UI on top of
3. __At least three__ process shots that show your screen as you work on the project.
4. Illustrator or Photoshop files (`.ai`, `.psd`)
5. High-resolution rendering of your finished re-design (`.jpg`, `.png`, or `.pdf`)

### Naming Conventions
This time, __you must adhere__ to these naming conventions to avoid losing points:

1. Your zip file should be named `p1-lastname-firstname.zip` _(e.g., p1-aguirre-nicolas.zip)_
2. Your text description should be named `description.docx`
3. Your source screenshot should be named `source.png`
4. Your process shots should be named `process1.png`, `process2.png` etc.
5. Your Illustrator/Photoshop file should be named `redesign.ai`
6. Your final, rendered product should be named `redesign.png`
7. If you have any other relevant files please put them in a folder named `misc` and avoid nonsensical filenames like `129389182408_121904812.PNG`

If you used a different filetype, observe the same rule but change the extension. For example if you did Photoshop instead of Illustrator, I expect `redesign.psd` instead of `redesign.ai`

Please be mindful of capitalization.

### Due Friday Feb 8th @ 11:59pm