# Project 5
## Description
You will create an interactive [spirograph](https://p5js.org/examples/simulate-spirograph.html). Don't freak out - it doesn't have to look exactly like the live demo or the example on p5js.org - it just has to be relatively functional. This project also comes with video tutorials as it is more difficult and involved than our previous projects.

## Demo
This project has a [live demo](spiro-demo/index.html)

## Starter Files
You will be given three files:

 * index.html
 * styles.css
 * sketch.js

The only file you need to modify is `sketch.js`

Download here - [Project 5 Starter Files](proj5-starter.zip)

## Requirements
While your product does not have to look exactly like the demo, it should meet several criteria:

 * mouseX maps to `hue` (color value)
 * mouseY maps to speed of rotation
 * a functional pause button
 * a functional trace button (to leave renderings present)
 * ability to create any amount of circles

## Grading

This project has five key components, each worth `20 points`.

|Component|Points |
| ---     |-----: | 
| Skill 1 - `push()` and `pop()` | 20 |
| Skill 2 - functional buttons | 20 |
| Skill 3 - `translate()` and `rotate()` | 20 |
| Skill 4 - `map()` | 20 |
| Skill 5 - proper use of arrays and for loops | 20 |
|**Total**|**100**|

## Variables
This project's has more variables than most we've dealt with. This is a guide on which variables you need to have, and what to do with them:

### Global Variables <small>outside of setup() and draw()</small>
 * `var NUMANGLES` Number of circles/angles you want to have. Initialize at `10`
 * `var angles = new Array(NUMANGLES)` An array to hold all the angles. I give this to you.
 * `var r` Radius of the central circle. not to be confused with `_r` inside the draw loop
 * `var i` Counter for our main loop inside of the draw loop
 * `var speed` Speed of central angle. Initialize at a value of 1. You will use mouseY to map from input values of `[0, height]` to output values of `[-5, 5]`
 * `var hue` Will hold our hue (color) value. You will use mouseX to map from input values of `[0, width]` to output values of `[0, 360]`
 * `var tracing` If true, we will trace the canvas. Initialize false. This will be controlled by a button in the HTML document.
 * `var paused` If true, animation will stop. Initialize false. This will be controlled by a button in the HTML document.

### Inside the draw loop
`var _r` will be placed inside of the main `for` loop. You will assign it a value of `r / (i + 1)`; this will essentially make each successive circle of a smaller radius than the previous one. You will also use `translate(0, _r)` or `translate(_r, 0)` after applying a `push()`. 

## Tutorials
I will be adding tutorials based on the need of students. I have started off with one tutorial prefacing the starter project.

 * Part I - Environment - <https://youtu.be/-5WQvGqG9D8>
 * Part II - Mapping and Translating - <https://youtu.be/S8atdwMrD9o>
 * Part III - For Loop - <https://youtu.be/PFjIIYAmXOk>
 * Part IV - Tracing and Pausing - <https://youtu.be/X4iA-EKhLLU>

## Submission - Canvas
You will submit your project on `Canvas` in the form of a `.zip` file with this format:
`j360-lastname-firstname.zip` 

Remember **`I will deduct points`** if your file is not named correctly!

Submit your assignment on `Canvas` in the form of a `.zip` file.


### **Due Friday 12/16 11:59pm**


