---
layout: default
title: J463 - Project 2
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
course: 'j463'
---

# Project Two
## Getting Started
### Description
For Project Two, you will use `Photoshop` (and any other tools you like) to create a 24"x36" movie poster for a fictional movie. There is no strict requirement here &mdash; use your design sense and Photoshop skills to create a compelling movie poster.

### Approach
#### 1. Develop concept
Come up with an idea for your movie. Consider:
 * Genre - Is this a drama? Horror film? Comedy?
 * Potential actors/actresses - Who is in your film? Eddie Murphy? Don Cheadle? Jennifer Lawrence?
 * Setting - Where and when is this film set?
 * Message - What morals, themes, and motifs are present in this film?

You should have your movie concept ready by __Monday, Oct 9th__

  <div class="card-block">
    <p class="card-text">Fill out this concept questionnaire</p>
    <a href="https://goo.gl/forms/bFU04Z7N2DsTdRsk2" class="btn btn-primary" target="_blank">View form</a>
  </div>

#### 2. Collect ideas; gather inspiration
Get on Pinterest, tumblr, or any platform where you can find and collect images rapidly.

You should:
 * Find other movies of similar styles you want to replicate. If you are considering a super hero movie, you want to pin lots of characters, designs, and graphics of super heroes for inspiration
 * Get ideas for color schemes in your design - This can be from virtually anything. Find color schemes you like and gather them.
 * Spend considerable time doing this; it will make your work MUCH easier if you have existing designs to consult.
 * Look for pleasant composition and replicate it. In other words, find good posters that you like and use them as a starting point.

This should also give you plenty of images to start with.

#### 3. Design and Iterate
Take your time experimenting with different designs. Don't get discouraged if your first idea doesn't pan out.

You should be working on this regularly so that I can give you feedback and point you in the right direction.

## Grading and Requirements `15 pts`
### Correctness of Submission `1 pts.`
 * `zip` file is submitted; includes folder named `project2_lastname-firstname`
 * All files are included
 * All files, and the folder in which they reside, are correctly named

### Concept `2 pts.`
 * Designer has carefully thought of a concept
 * Poster design reflects designer's vision of the movie

### Composition `3 pts.`
 * Poster should be about 24"x36", or similar dimensions
 * Design considers principles of composition discussed in class
 * Composition is balanced
 * Composition contains clear hierarchy

### Visual Elements `3 pts.`
You will use images (from any source) in your design. These might include:
 * Actors/actresses
 * Backgrounds, buildings, scenery
 * Effects - flames, explosions, clouds, mist, lights, etc.

Attention to detail is important.
 * Photos and other elements should be CLEAN. Spend the time to clean up jagged edges and other unwanted artefacts.
 * Positioning and sizing of elements should be deliberate and attentive, not random and sloppy.
 * Visual style should be consistent across the design - it should look like it a design that was carefully crafted by one person, not a mess of photographs hastily slapped together.

### Text `3 pts.`
Your design must include:

1. Title of film
2. Tagline _(e.g., "How far would you go for revenge?")_
3. Names of at least two actors

Text should be:

1. Sized strategically; obviously the title should be biggest.
2. Have a clear visual hierarchy _(i.e., going from largest to smallest or most-important to least-important)_
3. Have deliberate font choices. In other words, the fonts should "go together"; don't use fonts of wildly different styles.
4. Readable. Try to match the style of other successful posters.

### Color `3 pts.`
 * Design has a clear color scheme _(e.g., monochromatic, analogous, complementary, tertiary)_
 * Color use is intentional rather than random/arbitrary
 * Color scheme "goes with" the movie. For example, dark and serious colors for a horror film; brilliant and saturated colors for an animated children's movie.

## Submission
CANVAS > ASSIGNMENTS > PROJECT TWO

You will be submitting `a single zip file`. The zip file should contain a folder named `project2_lastname-firstname` that has:

 1. Your Photoshop `psd` file
 2. An image export - `png` format is preferred
 3. Your source images

#### **Due Monday Oct. 23rd at 11:59pm**