---
layout: default
title: J463 - Project Three
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
published: true
term: 'fa20'
course: 'j463'
---
# Project Three `15 pts.`--- Mobile App Prototype
## Description
Using Figma, you will create a dynamic prototype for a mobile app. You can make anything you want for this project, but I also have a suggested prompt:

<div class="card-block">
  <p class="card-text lead">Location-based mobile app that connects strangers in a meaningful way.</p>
</div>

## Process
Parts 1-3 of this process you will submit as participation in the form of a PDF.

Your concept is due due `Tuesday Oct 27th at 11:59pm`. It will count as weeks 9-10 participation.

### 1) Concept/Narrative
Write about `50-100~ words` explaining the app you want to create. If you are using the suggested prompt, then give your interpretation of it.

### 2) Examples
Collect `ten or more` exemplar images. Although this design is for a mobile app, your screenshots do not need to be from a mobile platform, and they don't necessarily have to be from a app. You can also include screenshots from identity guides/branding literature if you find it helpful. Try to include variation; don't just submit ten screenshots of the same app.

You may find the [inspiration](../inspiration.html) section of this site useful.

### 3) Low-fidelity sketch
Create a `low fidelity` prototype. This can be a paper sketch. Please make sure your sketches are visible/legible with sufficient contrast. I recommend using a scanner or an app like CamScanner to get a clear sketch.

### 4) Interactive Prototype with Style Guide
Your prototype should be intuitive and give users a strong understanding of what your app is about and how it works.

Think back to our lecture on __Design Systems__ and apply your learnings.

Expectations:
 * Proper use of components
 * Consistent visual style
 * Use of Figma styles for text, colors, effects, etc.

You should have one or more frames in your Figma project that showcase the style guide. [Here's an example](../img/style-tile.jpg) of how you might present your style guide.

### 4.1) Color scheme
You must specify when a color is used--- e.g., blue for primary/dominant color, red for warning color etc. Read [this guide](https://blog.prototypr.io/basic-ui-color-guide-7612075cc71a) for details.

You may find variations helpful.

If you are using gradients, you must define the two (or more) colors used.

Here's a great example: [Firefox Color Guide](https://design.firefox.com/photon/visuals/color.html)

### 4.2) Typography
I __highly recommend__ having at most two font families.

You must have at least three variations with samples of each. Example:
 * 24pt Bold Oswald for headings
 * 18pt Bold Oswald for secondary headings
 * 14pt Open Sans for body copy
 * 11pt Open Sans for captions

__DO NOT__ use _lorem ipsum_ or placeholder text; populate meaningful content.

Here's a great example of a [detailed typography guide](http://www.bbc.co.uk/gel/guidelines/typography). You don't need quite this level of detail, but it's helpful.

### 4.3) Spacing and Margin Specs
This will include details of spacing, sizing, and positioning elements.

Examples:
 * Buttons will be 40px tall, at least 100px wide and no wider than 300px
 * Buttons will have 8px vertical margins
 * All corner- or side-anchored panels will be 20px from the outer edge of the screen
 * UI components will be aligned to a six-column grid

### 4.4) Visual treatment and effects
You will consider details of UI components and how they impact the look/feel of your app.

Examples:
 * All buttons will have a drop-shadow, 5px x offset, 5px y offset, 10px radial blur, 70% opacity #000000 (define this as a style if you're doing Figma)
 * All buttons have 1px solid #CCCCCC stroke
 * Panels have a 45-degree notch in the top-left and bottom-right corners
 * Art direction specs if applicable

### 4.5) Component Library
Once you develop and refine your style guide, you will build a component library.

Showcase used components, and provide detailed hierarchy. E.g., if you have a 'panel' component you should list subpanels, buttons inside subpanels, icons and text inside buttons, etc. This is a chance to show a practical application of the specs you developed in the previous steps.

The idea is that if you have a button in your app, it looks the same everywhere. If you have 20 buttons in your prototype, I should be able to change them all instantaneously.

### 4.6) Other stuff
This is optional. Depending on your project, you might also consider:

 * Iconography
 * Branding (e.g., mission statement, voice/tone, customer experience)
 * Illustration and art direction
 * Logo treatment

### Considerations for Grading
This project is worth 15 points.

#### Concept `4 pts`
Concept statement:
   * Gives the reader a clear understanding of this app's premise

Examples:
   * Are varied, distinct, and high-quality
   * Influence and guide your design

Sketches:
   * Give a good overview for important screens in this app
   * Guide your prototype design
   * Are legible and clear

#### Prototyping `4 pts`
Prototype Flow
 * Prototype should be cohesive and intuitive from start to finish
 * Prototype screens should the user a strong understanding of how the app works

Components
 * __Don't put Master Components on your frames.__ Put them on a separate page along with your style guide elements
 * Repeated layout elements should be components
 * It should be easy to change every instance of a component
 * Consistent look and feel
 * Attention to detail
 * Sized and position of elements
 * Completeness of component library
 * Observation of standard conventions

#### Visual Style `7 pts.`
Composition, Layout, and Proportion
 * Elements are appropriately sized and thoguhtfully positioned
 * Spacing/margin among elements is consistent
 * UI is neither too sparse nor too crowded; mindful use of whitespace (negative space)
 * Effective design principles are used _(e.g., [Rule of Thirds](https://tympanus.net/codrops/2012/05/23/understanding-the-rule-of-thirds-in-web-design/), [Golden Ratio](https://blog.prototypr.io/golden-ratio-in-ui-design-8d11e66582c3))_

Typography
 * Fonts are appropriate to the app's visual style _(e.g. do not use Comic Sans if you are re-designing Dark Souls)_
 * Fonts are readable. _(Remember the six foot rule; you should be able to read it six feet away from your screen)_
 * Decorative fonts are used sparingly or not at all
 * Letter spacing and [kerning](https://www.canva.com/learn/kerning/) are considered
 * Clear font hierarchy exists
   * The user should know which information is critical and which is less important
   * Appropriate contrast is observed _(e.g., pairing 16pt Garamond with 18pt Georgia is not an effective contrast)_

Color
 * Color choices are sensible and work with the app's visual theme
 * Color palette is thoughtful and harmonious
 * Use of color is consistent; choose a specific color and maintain it

Shapes and Iconography
 * Icons should fit the visual style of the app.
 * Icon imagery should be representational of its function
 * You can use existing icons as long as you cite the source

Visual Treatment
 * Effects and visual treatment should be consistent
 * Elements inside the prototype should look like they go together

__Style Guide__

You should have one page dedicated to your components and `style guide`  
Your style guide should include specifications of:
 * Typography
 * Color palette
 * Recurring visual elements
 * anything else relevant to the visual identity

### Submission and Deliverables
You must have two pages on your Figma project:

1. One for your App
2. One for your Master Components and Style Guide

You will submit a `shareable link` for your Figma project.

Your Figma project should have __two pages__. One for the app itself and one for the style guide.

### __Due Friday Nov 13th__ at 11:59pm.