---
layout: default
title: J463 - Project Four
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
published: true
term: 'fa20'
course: 'j463'
---
# Homework Four + Project Four (`5pts.` + `15 pts.`) --- Magnum Opus
## Description
Project Four is an opportunity for you to combine all of your skillsets into a Graphic Design masterpiece. It is worth `fifteen points`.

I am very flexible about what you want to do. This should be seen as more than just a school project--- this is a powerful opportunity to apply your skills in a meaningful way.

If you aren't sure about what to do, here's some ideas:

1. Create a (new) visual identity for a brand--- real or imagined
2. Create another Figma app
3. Learn a new program/medium (e.g. a video-based project or a website)
4. Create a portfolio website for your work in this class

__If you are in another class of mine, you cannot 'double count' your project for this class and the other one__

### Grading
Criteria considered are:
 * Strength of concept `5 pts.`
   * Concept is thought-out and meaningful.
   * Project scope is challenging but doable.
   * Project demands design rigor.
 * Visual Aesthetic `10 pts.`
   * Project considers and applies everything you learned in this class
   * Project is consistent; harmonious
   * Project is polished, complete, and presentable

### P4 submission requirements
You will submit with (a) a .zip file named `p4-lastname-firstname` and/or (b) a website URL

Make sure if you are submitting files that everything is named correctly. Don't put stuff like `Copy of Copy of Untitled v2.psd` etc.

Project Four is due `Monday December 14th at 11:59pm`.

## Homework Four
Your Homework Four is worth `five points`. It is a proposal for Project Four.

You will tell me simply, in a text entry on canvas:

1. What is your idea? Be specific with deliverables--- what are you actually turning in?
2. Why is it important?
3. Outline three milestones: What do you plan to have done on weeks 14, 15, and 16 of this semester?
4. What is your biggest anticipated challenge and how will you overcome it?

### HW4 submission requirements
You will submit the Canvas text entry by `Sunday November 15th at 11:59pm`.