---
layout: default
title: G290 - Project Three
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa18'
course: 'g290'
---
# Project Three `15 pts.`
## Description
You are given two choices--- to work with Figma or Unity. Either way, you will have the same premise:

<div class="card-block">
  <p class="card-text lead">Location-based mobile game that connects strangers in a meaningful way.</p>
</div>

Look at the corresponding section of this document to figure out your task. Figma users will work in teams; Unity users may work in teams or individually.

## Option A: Figma
You will build an interactive Figma prototype that showcases your game idea.

### Process

#### 1) Concept/Narrative
Write about `50-100~ words` explaining your interpretation of the prompt, and the game you plan to build to fulfill it.

#### 2) Paper Sketches
Create `three or more` sketches on paper. Please make sure they are visible/legible with sufficient contrast.

#### 3) Examples
Collect `ten or more` example screenshots. Although this design is for a mobile game, your screenshots do not need to be for a mobile platform, and they don't necessarily have to be from a game.

#### 4) Low-fidelity prototype
Using Figma, Illustrator, Photoshop (or any tool), create a low-fidelity prototype.

This prototype is to determine `what goes where`, __NOT__ `art style or visual treatment`. Use this opportunity to figure out scale/proportions and create the wireframe.

This prototype should be __black and white__ except for __one color__.

#### 5) Interactive Prototype
My recommendation is to create your low-fidelity prototype in Figma, then copy the project and fill in assets.

Considerations:
 * Proper use of components
 * Consistent visual style
 * Use of text styles and color styles

### Submission and Deliverables
You will submit a `.zip` file with your local files, and `shareable link(s)` for your Figma project(s).

Please adhere to these naming conventions:

1. Your zip file should be named `p3-lastname-firstname.zip` _(e.g., p3-aguirre-nicolas.zip)_. __Only one person from your team needs to submit.__
2. Your sketches should be `sketch1.png`, `sketch2.png` etc. and be in a folder named `sketches`
3. Your text description should be named `description.docx`
4. Your example screenshots should be named `example1.png`, `example2.png`, etc. and be in a folder named `examples`
5. Put any other relevant files in a folder named `misc` and avoid nonsensical filenames like `1293408_121904812.PNG`

#### **Due Wednesday November 14th @ 11:59pm**

## Option B: Unity
You can build a scaleable UI kit in Unity that executes in a scene.

The focus is on `building assets` and not creating `functional UI`. Ideally, your project 'works', but creating scaleable assets is the most important part.

### Process
#### 1) Concept/Narrative
Write `50-100~ words` explaining your interpretation of the prompt, and the UI kit you plan to build to fulfill it.

#### 2) Paper Sketches
On paper, create an annotated sketch of the UI elements you want. `There is no requirement` for number of assets, but it should give us a sense of what the game might look like.

Common elements you might include:
 * Menu
 * Settings
 * Volume
 * Brightness
 * Friends List
 * Selected/Hovered/Unselected modes
 * OK or Accept
 * Back
 * Borders--- Corners, straight pieces
 * Store
 * Social Media (Facebook , Twitter, Etc.)
 * Messages
 * Exit
 * Loading Icon
 * Cursor
 * Search Bar

#### 3) Examples
Collect `ten or more` example screenshots. Although this design is for a mobile game, your screenshots do not need to be for a mobile platform, and they don't necessarily have to be from a game.

#### 4) Create Assets
Use `Illustrator` or whatever technology you want to create the scaleable assets. I recommend Illustrator for its ability to create scaleable vector graphics. I recommend creating one Illustrator file and making each UI component on a separate artboard.

Here are some examples of UI kits that you might want to emulate or reference:
 * [SimpleUI](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/gui/icons/simple-ui-103969)
 * [Easy UI Emerald](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/gui/icons/easy-ui-emerald-default-112796)
 * [GUIdo Flat](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/gui/guido-flat-109964)
 * [Unity Samples: UI](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/essentials/unity-samples-ui-25468)

#### 5) Build scene
Once you have some assets, start getting them into Unity. Ideally, they have some functionality _(e.g., mouseover state)_

The idea is to have one scene that showcases the UI.

### Submission and Deliverables
You can submit in a few ways:

1. Submit a `.zip` file with your assets, scene, scripts, and anything else relevant. You could also export as a package.
2. Link a shared file from `Box`. Please verify that the file is properly shared attempting to open it in an incognito window.
3. Use Unity Cloud Build or similar service to share the project.

Please adhere to these naming conventions:

1. Your zip file should be named `p3-lastname-firstname.zip` _(e.g., p3-aguirre-nicolas.zip)_. __Only one person from your team needs to submit.__
2. Your sketch(es) should be `sketch.png`
3. Your text description should be `description.docx`
4. Your example screenshots should be `example1.png`, `example2.png`, etc. and be in a folder named `examples`
5. Put any other relevant files in a folder named `misc` and avoid nonsensical filenames like `1293408_121904812.PNG`

#### **Due Wednesday November 14th @ 11:59pm**