---
layout: default
title: J363 - Homework Four
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
course: 'j363'
---
# Homework Four --- <small>p5.js</small>
## Description
In this assignment, you will familiarize yourself with JavaScript, and the [p5.js](https://p5js.org/) library.

## Process
Before starting, you should have done some of the [Codecademy Javascript course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-javascript). You want to make sure you at least understand the basics: variables, control flow, and functions.

### Step One: Set up a p5.js pen
Make a new pen in Codepen. Import the p5.js library to your pen by going to __Pen settings, JavaScript__, look for __Add External Scripts/Pens__, and then paste the following code in there:

```
https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/p5.js/0.6.0/p5.js
```

This will make it so that your pen imports the p5.js library (so you can draw in the browser). Now you're ready to begin drawing with p5.js

### Step Two: p5.js tutorials and resources
Once you've created a pen and imported p5.js, you can get started.

There's two main resources that will be useful:
 * Dan Shiffman's [p5.js tutorials on YouTube](https://youtu.be/D1ELEeIs0j8). He is using Brackets, but we can use Codepen
 * The official [p5.js reference](https://p5js.org/reference/), which includes examples.

<div class="card-block">
  <p class="card-text lead">Finished site</p>
  <h6 class="card-text">Your finished sketch will function like this one:</h6>
  <a href="img/cake-finished.png" class="btn btn-primary" target="_blank">View Example</a>
</div>

## Starter Pen
You are given some starter files.
<div class="card-block">
  <p class="card-text lead">Starter files for Homework Three:</p>
  <a href="hw3-start.zip" class="btn btn-primary" target="_blank">Download</a>
</div>

### About these files
 * `example.png` is just there as a reference.
 * `index.html` is where you will do almost all of your work.
 * `words.txt` file has the text you need. You can copy and paste this. Remember if you right-click on a file in the sidebar of Atom, you can choose to `split` the view so you can see both files.
 * The `img` folder has all the images you need--- three cakes and a hero image.

### CSS
You will have to:

1. Use a `<link>` tag to connect your `styles.css` in `index.html`
2. Set a `background-image` property on the `#hero` selector in `styles.css`. This will set your hero image.

No other CSS is necessary, but you can add additional styling if you like.

### Bootstrap classes you need
 * `container`--- Open it at the start of the `body`, close just before you see the `<script>` tags.
 * `jumbotron`--- this will be your hero section
 * `display-4`--- for making the `h1` display text
 * `row`--- for the main section, put columns in here
 * `col-md-4`--- This will be a 1/3-width, column that gets stacked on medium-sized displays
 * `img-responsive`--- Put this on your `img` tags so they resize properly
 * `lead`--- Put this on your paragraphs so they have larger text.

### Bootstrap reference
You will probably need to know about:

 * [Bootstrap grid system](http://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/layout/grid/)
 * [Bootstrap typography](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/content/typography/) for display text and `lead` paragraphs
 * [Bootstrap components](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/alerts/) _(e.g., jumbotron)_

## Submission - Canvas
Make sure your project folder is named `hw3_lastname-firstname`. Then, compress it. It should be named `hw3_lastname-firstname.zip`.

Submit your compressed file _(zip)_ to: `CANVAS > ASSIGNMENTS > HOMEWORK 3`

#### **Due Monday March 26th at 11:59pm**