---
layout: default
title: Procedural Art Project Two
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa19'
course: 'pro'
---
# Project Two --- <small>Interface Control</small>
## Description
In this assignment, you will use p5.js to create an interactive art piece that implements the following:

 1. [dat.GUI](https://workshop.chromeexperiments.com/examples/gui/#1--Basic-Usage) or another form of user interface
 2. objects
 3. arrays
 4. looping/iteration _(e.g. using a 'for' loop)_
 
 A great way to satisfy the last three requirements is to define an object you'd like, populate an array, and use loops to traverse (iterate through) the array.

## Details
This project is worth `10 points`.

`3 pts.` Visual aesthetic:
 * Project is pleasant and presentable. Should be usable as a portfolio piece.
 * Project either `(a)` has representational merit (looks like something familiar) or `(b)` is appealing as an abstract work 
 * Colors and visual effects should be harmonious and deliberate
 
`2 pts.` Vision:
 * Project emerges from a clear vision, theme, inspiration, or intention
 * Project conveys artistic ambition
 * Project has a clear theme, purpose, vision, idea, statement, message, etc.
 * Project is dynamic, captivating, noteworthy, thought-provoking, etc.
 
`2 pts.` Interface control:
 * Project must use `Dat.GUI` or other form of interface control
 * UI should be intuitive
 * Variables/fields in the UI should be intuitive _(e.g. 'xPosition' should control the x Position)_
 * Interface should allow the viewer to feel in control
 * Changes through variables in the interface should produce meaningful changes in your artwork
 
`2 pts.` Objects, arrays, iteration
 * Project should showcase object-oriented programming
 * Objects should be intuitive and clearly defined
 * Project should contain one or more arrays
 * Project should make use of array method `.push()` when relevant, and also use property `.length` _(this is a great way to iterate through an array)_
 * Project should contain a means of iteration (probably a loop)
 * See [this example](https://p5js.org/examples/objects-array-of-objects.html) for a good idea of what I'm talking about

`1 pt.` Code quality:
 * __Code contains useful comments__ _(Please make this EASY for me to grade!)_
 * Code adheres to [JavaScript coding conventions and style guide](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_conventions.asp)
 * Code is clean and readable
 * Code is blocked out into meaningful sections
 * Code is free of unnecessary line returns/whitespace
 * Identifiers _(e.g. variable names)_ are meaningful
 * Code is optimized; use loops instead of repeating the same function five times in a row. Use objects when a similar construct is repeated. Use arrays to keep data of the same type.
 * No unnecessary/dysfunctional code (e.g. putting `fill('blue')` a bunch of times when you only need to set it once)


### Do not steal code
You can reference stuff from the docs, of course. For instance you might use some of the starter code from an example and put a comment that says:

```js
 // adapted from https://p5js.org/examples/math-random.html
```

### Submission
Submit your codepen URL to the canvas assignment

Due `Monday October 14th @ 11:59pm`