## Project 1

**Project 1** will test students' knowledge of basic `HTML`, `Markdown`, and `CSS`.  
This project has two parts:

(40 pts.) `Part 1` - Basic page structure with Markdown and HTML  
(60 pts.) `Part 2` - Creating a multi-page site using HTML and CSS

### **Due Friday 9/23 at 11:59pm**

---
### Part 1 - Markdown/HTML
You will use `Markdown` and `HTML` for this part.  
Remember that `Markup` is another word for `HTML` _(Hypertext Markup Language)_


You may recall that Markdown is a language used to generate HTML.  
For instance, using this syntax in Markdown:

~~~markdown
# This is an h1
## This is an h2

[IU](http://iu.edu)
~~~

Will give you this HTML:

~~~html
<h1>This is an h1</h1>
<h2>This is an h2</h2>

<a href="http://iu.edu">IU</a>
~~~

For Part 1, you must replicate the following page using MarkDown:  
### [PART 1 - Solution example](proj1part1.html)

You should replace the text with your bio information.


You will submit two files:

 * `(20 pts.) index.md` - The Markdown syntax you used
 * `(20 pts.) index.html` - The HTML that you exported from Markdown. _(This file is generated with Markdown Preview; you don't need to do anything to it.)_

You will need:

 * Package control installed on your version of SublimeText
 * The MarkdownEditing and Markdown Preview packages for sublime. Use `CMD+SHIFT+P` to open the command palette and use the `install package` command for both of these. _Markdown Preview_ commands can be executed from the command palette as well.
 * A profile image

For reference, these will prove helpful:

 * [Markdown Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)
 * [Markdown Tutorial](http://www.markdowntutorial.com/)
 * [Markdown Preview Reference](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Markdown%20Preview) - see section _Usage_

**HINT** - Use the "inspect" feature in chrome on the example page to find out what `html` tags you need first. Then determine the corresponding `markdown` syntax 

---
### Part 2 - HTML/CSS

You will be given a `.zip` file with some starter files.  
You will need to modify the files so that the page looks something like this:  

Download - [PART 2 - Starter Files](j360_proj1-2.zip)  
Download - [PART 2 - Solution Example](1-2_solution.png)

`(30 pts.) index.html`
* * * 
 1. Use the `<link>` tag to include your `style.css` stylesheet
 2. Import a font from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/). Demonstration will be given in class
 3. The header for this page is too small. Change the tag to something that gives us a bigger header.
 4. Assign a class to the last `div` - use it in `style.css` to style this div.
 5. Add an `img` to the page.
 

`(30 pts.) style.css`
* * *
 
 1. Use the `body` selector to change your page's font to the Google font you chose. _(I recommend [Open Sans](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Open+Sans))_
 2. For the `div` selector, fix the syntax so that the background color of each div is "lightgrey"
 3. In the `p` (paragraph) selector, use the `padding` property to add some padding to your paragraphs.
 4. Use the `img` selector to change the width of the image you used in `index.html`
 5. Use the class you assigned to the last div in `index.html` to make its text color red
 
