---
layout: default
title: J463 - Project 1
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa17'
course: 'j463'
---

# Project One
## Getting Started
For Project One, you will use `InDesign` to assemble a newspage. I will provide five stories, with text and images, that you must arrange into a newspage layout in InDesign. You may use as few as two stories and as many as five.

Download the starter files (below) and unzip, then read `newspage-instructions.pdf`. This PDF will take you through the assignment.

  <div class="card-block">
    <h4 class="card-title">Starter Files</h4>
    <!--<p class="card-text">Click below to download</p>-->
    <a href="newspage.zip" class="btn btn-primary" target="_blank">Download</a>
  </div>

### About these files
You'll see a few folders...

 * There are five numbered folders. Each is a story with text and images. You can use as few as two and as many as all five of these.
 * You need to have promos - advertisements for products/services, and/or spaces advertising another story in the paper. The `PROMOS` folder has everything you need for this.
 * The `newspage.indt` file is what you will start with.
 * `newspage-instructions.pdf` will guide you through everything

## Inspiration
### Exemplary Layouts
You are __highly encouraged__ to look at attractive newspage layouts for inspiration. Here are some starting points:

 * [Newseum](http://www.newseum.org/todaysfrontpages/) - Great collection of front pages
 * [Magazine Page Elements](http://www.magazinedesigning.com/magazine-page-elements/)
 * [What to do With Picture Captions](http://www.magazinedesigning.com/what-to-do-with-picture-captions/)
 * [50 Incredible Editorial Designs From Around The World](https://designschool.canva.com/blog/editorial-design/)
 * [Modular Design: The Complete Primer for Beginners](https://designshack.net/articles/layouts/modular-design-the-complete-primer-for-beginners/)

A simple search for "newspage layout" or "modular design layout" on Google or Pinterest can also elicit many ideas.

### Guideline (slides)
I don't usually give powerpoint slides, but I have assembled some select slides as references. You can download them here:

  <div class="card-block">
    <h4 class="card-title">Guideline Slides</h4>
    <a href="newspage-guidelines.pdf" class="btn btn-primary" target="_blank">Download</a>
  </div>

## Typography
Some general rules:
 * Do not use `more than 3` font families. You may use as many variations as you like though (e.g., italic, regular, bold, condensed, book, light)
 * `Body copy` should be 9 or 10 points, with leading set at one point higher. (e.g., 10pt font with 11pt leading)
 * `Body copy` should have first line indentation set. The indentation amount should be the same as the point size. (e.g., 10pt indent on 10pt font)
 * Headlines and decks should not be hyphenated. Resize or rewrite as needed.
 * Headlines usually have `solid leading`, e.g., same point amount for font size and leading
 * Avoid [widows](https://www.fonts.com/content/learning/fontology/level-2/text-typography/rags-widows-orphans) on headlines and decks.

Choosing fonts can be difficult. Here are some suggestions to start with. You don't have to use these, but they might be a good starting point. You are allowed to create your own design and use novel typefaces if you feel it's suitable.

 * __Label__ - SalvoSerifCond - Black -  14/14
 * __Headline__ - Georgia Pro - Cond Black - 30/30
 * __Deck__ - Georgia Pro - Cond - 18/24
 * __Byline__ - Avenir Next - Bold - 10/10
 * __Service line__ - Georgia Pro - Regular - 9/9
 * __Body copy__ - Georgia Pro - Regular - 9/10 or 10/11
 * __Caption__ - Georgia Pro - Italic - 10/10

## Submission
CANVAS > ASSIGNMENTS > PROJECT ONE

I need two things from you:

 * Your InDesign file (.indd) - name it `newspage_lastname-firstname.indd`
 * A PDF export of your file (.pdf) - name it `newspage_lastname-firstname.pdf`

Put both files into a folder named `newspage_lastname-firstname` and `compress` it into a `.zip` file. You will submit that single archive file to Canvas.

### Due Date
This assignment is due __FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 22nd__ @ 11:59pm.

## Grading
Grading is detailed in `newspage-instructions.pdf`. Note that the place where most students lose points is 'correctness of submission'; make sure your filenames are correct.