# j362 - Project 4: Twine Game
## Description

You will work in teams to create an interactive, non-linear [Twine](https://twinery.org) story. Your twine story is designed to make readers feel a certain emotion or set of emotions - this will be randomly assigned to you. You must also use at least one character, generated at random from the spreadsheet that we created. Teams will periodically review one another's work, and everyone will meet on the date of the final to present their stories.

## Requirements
(1) Story must evoke at least one `emotion` from your assigned list  
(2) Story must contain at least one `character` from your assigned list  
(3) Story must contain at least two `endings`  
(4) Story should be designed to take readers about `5 minutes` to complete (10 at the most)  
(5) Story must be `proofread` before submission. Points will be deducted for spelling and grammar errors.

Grades will be assigned on the basis of adhering to these requirements.

## Assigned Teams, Characters, and Emotions
Teams are assigned by the instructor. Characters and emotions will be randomly generated during class, and teams can choose to re-randomize their results up to two times.

Assigned teams, characters, and emotions are here - [Project 4 Workbook](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/109zUCKtWFXSI09qqDjqafjB1lbvh8AeX9ON51Jp0rCs/edit?usp=sharing)  
Each team has their own `tab` on the spreadsheet.

## Submission

Although this is a team assignment, `each individual must submit via Canvas` so I can grade them. Your submission should be in the form of an `.html` file, exported from Twine.

### Filename
Your filename should have the course number, and your group number. Example:

`j362_group1_story.html`